hello my name is ray Bristow and I'm
vice president of business and
operations solutions at Ericsson North
America today I'm going to talk about
how oh s s and BS s works first what is
OSS and BSS OSS or operation support
systems and BSS business support systems
are the lifeblood of any communication
service provider you can invest billions
and billions of dollars in the best
network technology but to get that
technology to a customer and end
customer so that it's usable and you can
build them for them and they can upgrade
and they can make the technology work
for their business for their personal
life for their social network you have
to do that with information technology
systems and that's where OSS and BSS
comes in it's the back office and the
front office systems that all the
communications service providers use to
connect the end customer to the network
and all of the content in between
whether it's understanding where you are
and what you're using your applications
on your mobile device whether it's a
smart phone or a tablet or sitting at
home in your living room what content
are you consuming when and how and what
value is that providing to you and how
are you getting value out of that how
does that translate into more products
and services that communication service
providers can provide you to the end
customer what the world is changing new
technologies are coming on faster and
faster online and there are new
collaborations between third parties and
communication service providers
look at the connected car look at the
Internet of Things look at machine and
machine all these new technologies are
bringing lots of different parties
together to provide an end service or
end solution together for the end
customer and that requires a lot of
systems systems integration business
process work etc to make all new
ecosystems and all new business
processes of the world work and come
together it's important because
analytics is coming into play analytics
to the network and the customer in the
supply chain and how does all that
information come together there's new
computing technologies cloud computing
virtualized networks software-defined
networking and then there's the agility
factor the customer
needs to be able to interact through a
web portal to be able to select what
services they want in real time and they
want to be billed and charged in real
time they want to be have transparency
and access to the monetization and the
flexibility that they have to be able to
pay for things so there's a lot of
things changing a lot of technology
forcing that change and a lot of new
things happening in the market and it's
a really exciting time for the
communication service provider community
and again OSS and BSS is a lifeblood of
making all the technology and the
customer experience come together
today's episode is brought to you by
Telecom careers the number one global
telecom and wireless job board telecom
careers net